Users Search Engine (USE) aims to provide a search engine that values:

	· Utility
		There should be high control in how a search query is made so that one may be able to refine, filter and sort search results.
		There should be API access to make it easy to utilize the search engine from within applications.

	· Quality
		All results are user curated. There is no automatic scraping.

	· Transparency
		Who entered entries into the database?
		What are the current search trends in absolute values?
			(As will be discussed in more detail the trust network comes into play here since bots could be attempting to sway the trends if their searches mattered)
		Financial data for the organization
			This is out of scope of this document but any organization running this service (or perhaps it is also a network of trustworthy organizations) should have open
			financial dconnections are in the ata regarding the operations of the search engine.

Background

	Today a lot of our experiences on the internet is colored by the competition in the attention economy.
	Heavy use of search engine optimization (SEO) and sponsored or otherwise prioritized content makes certain topics real hard to search for while getting relevant answers.
	Some sites will even generate hundreds of entries in search engines for common queries and filling it with nonsense.
	The need for a search engine that serves its users rather than the sponsors has never been greater.

Potential problems
	Bait and switch
		A user could be generating good and trustworthy data for a long time to cement their reputation and then later misuse this reputation.
			There is nothing that can prevent this but perhaps there could be tools to make it easier to spot these things.
			For instance, if a user can see how useful other peers¹ judge a user and they notice a rapid decline they can make assumptions regarding corruption of said user.



Notes
	¹ other peers: Other peers in this document typically refers to a weighted average of peers that the user trust.
		Trust can be positive, negative or neutral.
		Trust also travels via judgement trust connections. When "other peers" are influencing decisions or reported data this is the outcome of travelling the trust network.
		The depth may be dynamically decided depending on how strong connections are in the network.